[DOCS] introduce performance hint and threads scheduling in CPU inference (#24147)
openvinotoolkit/openvino: docs/articles_en/openvino-workflow/running-inference/inference-devices-and-modes/cpu-device/performance-hint-and-threads-scheduling.rst

+-----------------+-----------------------+
| less            | 2                     |
+-----------------+-----------------------+
| normal          | 3 or 4 or 5           |
+-----------------+-----------------------+

Then the value of ``ov::num_streams`` is calculated as ``ov::inference_num_threads`` divided by the number of threads per stream. The default settings of low-level performance properties on Windows and Linux are as follows:

+--------------------------------------+-------------------------------+-------------------------------+
| Property                             | Windows                       | Linux                         |
+======================================+===============================+===============================+
| ``ov::num_streams``                  | Calculate as above            | Calculate as above            |
+--------------------------------------+-------------------------------+-------------------------------+
| ``ov::inference_num_threads``        | Number of P-cores and E-cores | Number of P-cores and E-cores |
+--------------------------------------+-------------------------------+-------------------------------+

> | ``ov::hint::scheduling_core_type``   | P-cores and E-cores           | P-cores and E-cores           |

Author: updated

| ``ov::hint::enable_hyper_threading`` | Yes                           | Yes                           |
+--------------------------------------+-------------------------------+-------------------------------+
| ``ov::hint::enable_cpu_pinning``     | No                            | Yes                           |
+--------------------------------------+-------------------------------+-------------------------------+

Latency Hint on Non-Hybrid Core Systems or Single-Socket XEON Platforms
#######################################################################

In this case, the logic is identical to the case where ``ov::hint::scheduling_core_type`` is P-cores in the `Latency Hint on Hybrid Core Systems <#latency-hint-on-hybrid-core-systems>`__.

Throughput Hint on Non-Hybrid Core Systems or Single-Socket XEON Platforms
##########################################################################

In this case, the logic is identical to the case where ``ov::hint::scheduling_core_type`` is P-cores in the `Throughput Hint on Hybrid Core Systems <#throughput-hint-on-hybrid-core-systems>`__.

> Latency Hint on Dual-Socket XEON Platforms

Author: updated

+======================================+===============================+===============================+
| ``ov::num_streams``                  | 1                             | 1                             |
+--------------------------------------+-------------------------------+-------------------------------+
| ``ov::inference_num_threads``        | Number of cores on one socket | Number of cores on one socket |
+--------------------------------------+-------------------------------+-------------------------------+
| ``ov::hint::scheduling_core_type``   | P-cores or E-cores            | P-cores or E-cores            |
+--------------------------------------+-------------------------------+-------------------------------+
| ``ov::hint::enable_hyper_threading`` | No                            | No                            |
+--------------------------------------+-------------------------------+-------------------------------+
| ``ov::hint::enable_cpu_pinning``     | Not Supported                 | Yes                           |
+--------------------------------------+-------------------------------+-------------------------------+

> Throughput Hint on Dual-Socket XEON Platforms

Author: updated

.. {#openvino_docs_OV_UG_supported_plugins_CPU_Hints_Threading}

> Performance Hint and Threads Scheduling 

Author: updated

=======================================

.. meta::
   :description: The Threads Scheduling of CPU plugin in OpenVINO™ Runtime
                 detects CPU architecture and set low-level properties based

>                  on perforamnce hints automatically.

Author: updated

> Introduction

Author: updated

############

> Even though all supported devices in OpenVINO™ support low-level performance settings, these settings are not recommended for wide useage unless the application is targeted for specific platforms and models. The recommended approach is to configure performance in OpenVINO Runtime is using high level performance hint property ``ov::hint::performance_mode``. Using the perforamnce hints will ensure the best portability and scability of the applications for various platforms and models.

Reviewer: "The recommended approach is to configure performance" -> "The recommended approach for performance configuration"

Author: updated

> Even though all supported devices in OpenVINO™ support low-level performance settings, these settings are not recommended for wide useage unless the application is targeted for specific platforms and models. The recommended approach is to configure performance in OpenVINO Runtime is using high level performance hint property ``ov::hint::performance_mode``. Using the perforamnce hints will ensure the best portability and scability of the applications for various platforms and models.

Author: updated

> In order to ease the configuration of hardware devices, OpenVINO offers two dedicated performance hints, namely latency hint ``ov::hint::PerformanceMode::LATENCY`` and throughput hint ``ov::hint::PerformanceMode::THROUGHPUT``.

Author: updated

> Using CPU as example, with these two performance hints, automatic configuration of the following low-level performance properties are applied on the threads scheduling side. Please note that these configuration details may subject to change among releases to offer the best overall performance on various platforms and a large set of models. The overall performance is usually measured with GEOMean calculation of performance difference for hundreds of models in various size and precisions.  

Author: updated

- ``ov::num_streams``
- ``ov::inference_num_threads``
- ``ov::hint::scheduling_core_type``
- ``ov::hint::enable_hyper_threading``
- ``ov::hint::enable_cpu_pinning``

> For additional details regarding the above configurations, please refer to:

Author: updated

- `Multi-stream Execution <https://docs.openvino.ai/2024/openvino-workflow/running-inference/inference-devices-and-modes/cpu-device.html#multi-stream-execution>`__
- `Multi-Threading Optimization <https://docs.openvino.ai/2024/openvino-workflow/running-inference/inference-devices-and-modes/cpu-device.html#multi-threading-optimization>`__

Latency Hint on Hybrid Core Systems
###################################

> In this scenario, default setting of ``ov::hint::scheduling_core_type`` is decided by model precision and ratio of P-cores and E-cores.

Author: updated

.. note::

    P-cores is short for Performance-cores and E-cores is for Efficient-cores. These are available in Intel 12th, 13th, and 14th generations of Intel® Core™ processor (code name: Alder Lake, Raptor Lake, Raptor Lake refresh), and Intel® Core™ Ultra Processors (code name Meteor Lake). 

+----------------------------+---------------------+---------------------+
|                            | INT8 model          | FP32 model          |
+============================+=====================+=====================+

> | P-cores / E-cores < 2      | P-cores             | P-cores             |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| E-cores / P-cores < 2      | P-cores             | P-cores             |
```

Author: Thanks. Updated.

+----------------------------+---------------------+---------------------+

> | 2 <= P-cores / E-cores < 4 | P-cores             | P-cores and E-cores |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| 2 <= E-cores / P-cores < 4 | P-cores             | P-cores and E-cores |
```

Author: Thanks. Updated.

+----------------------------+---------------------+---------------------+

> | 4 <= P-cores / E-cores     | P-cores and E-cores | P-cores and E-cores |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| 4 <= E-cores / P-cores     | P-cores and E-cores | P-cores and E-cores |
```

+----------------------------+---------------------+---------------------+

> Then the default settings of low-level performance properties on Windows and Linux is as follows.

Author: updated

+--------------------------------------+-----------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------+
| Property                             | Windows                           | Linux                                         |
+======================================+===================================+===============================================+
| ``ov::num_streams``                  | 1                                 | 1                                             |
+--------------------------------------+-----------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------+
| ``ov::inference_num_threads``        | Dependent on scheduling_core_type | Dependent on scheduling_core_type             |
+--------------------------------------+-----------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------+

> | ``ov::hint::scheduling_core_type``   | Above table                       | Above table                                   |

Author: updated

+--------------------------------------+-----------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------+
| ``ov::hint::enable_hyper_threading`` | No                                | No                                            |
+--------------------------------------+-----------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------+
| ``ov::hint::enable_cpu_pinning``     | No                                | Yes except using P-cores and E-cores together |
+--------------------------------------+-----------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------+

.. note::

>     Both P-cores and E-cores are used for Latency Hint on Intel® Core™ Ultra Processors with Windows, except for large language models.

Author: updated

Throughput Hint on Hybrid Core Systems
######################################

In this scenario, thread scheduling first evaluates the memory pressure of the model being inferred on the current platform, and determines the number of threads per stream, as shown below.

+-----------------+-----------------------+
| Memory Pressure | Threads per stream    |
+=================+=======================+
| least           | 1 P-core or 2 E-cores |
+-----------------+-----------------------+
| less            | 2                     |
+-----------------+-----------------------+
| normal          | 3 or 4 or 5           |
+-----------------+-----------------------+

> Then the value of ``ov::num_streams`` is ``ov::inference_num_threads`` divided by the number of threads per stream. And the default settings of low-level performance properties on Windows and Linux are as follows.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Then the value of ``ov::num_streams`` is calculated as ``ov::inference_num_threads`` divided by the number of threads per stream. The default settings of low-level performance properties on Windows and Linux are as follows:
```

Author: updated

+======================================+===============================+===============================+
| ``ov::num_streams``                  | Calculate as above            | Calculate as above            |
+--------------------------------------+-------------------------------+-------------------------------+
| ``ov::inference_num_threads``        | Number of P-cores and E-cores | Number of P-cores and E-cores |
+--------------------------------------+-------------------------------+-------------------------------+
| ``ov::hint::scheduling_core_type``   | P-cores and E-cores           | P-cores and E-cores           |
+--------------------------------------+-------------------------------+-------------------------------+
| ``ov::hint::enable_hyper_threading`` | Yes                           | Yes                           |
+--------------------------------------+-------------------------------+-------------------------------+
| ``ov::hint::enable_cpu_pinning``     | No                            | Yes                           |
+--------------------------------------+-------------------------------+-------------------------------+

> Latency Hint on Non-Hybrid Core Systems or Single-Socket XEON platforms

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Latency Hint on Non-Hybrid Core Systems or Single-Socket XEON Platforms
```

Author: updated

#######################################################################

> In this case, the logic is the same as the case where ``ov::hint::scheduling_core_type`` is P-cores in `Latency Hint on Hybrid Core Systems <#latency-hint-on-hybrid-core-systems>`__.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In this case, the logic is identical to the case where ``ov::hint::scheduling_core_type`` is P-cores in the `Latency Hint on Hybrid Core Systems <#latency-hint-on-hybrid-core-systems>`__.
```

Author: updated

> Throughput Hint on Non-Hybrid Core Systems or Single-Socket XEON platforms

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Throughput Hint on Non-Hybrid Core Systems or Single-Socket XEON Platforms
```

Author: updated

##########################################################################

> In this case, the logic is the same as the case where ``ov::hint::scheduling_core_type`` is P-cores in `Throughput Hint on Hybrid Core Systems <#throughput-hint-on-hybrid-core-systems>`__.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In this case, the logic is identical to the case where ``ov::hint::scheduling_core_type`` is P-cores in the `Throughput Hint on Hybrid Core Systems <#throughput-hint-on-hybrid-core-systems>`__.
```

Author: updated

> Latency Hint on Dual-Sockert XEON platforms

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Latency Hint on Dual-Socket XEON Platforms
```

Author: updated

###########################################

> In this scenario, thread scheduling only create 1 stream, currently pinned to one socket. And the default settings of low-level performance properties on Windows and Linux is as follows.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In this scenario, thread scheduling only creates one stream, currently pinned to one socket. The default settings of low-level performance properties on Windows and Linux are as follows:
```

Author: updated

+--------------------------------------+-------------------------------+-------------------------------+
| Property                             | Windows                       | Linux                         |
+======================================+===============================+===============================+
| ``ov::num_streams``                  | 1                             | 1                             |
+--------------------------------------+-------------------------------+-------------------------------+
| ``ov::inference_num_threads``        | Number of cores on one socket | Number of cores on one socket |
+--------------------------------------+-------------------------------+-------------------------------+
| ``ov::hint::scheduling_core_type``   | P-cores or E-cores            | P-cores or E-cores            |
+--------------------------------------+-------------------------------+-------------------------------+
| ``ov::hint::enable_hyper_threading`` | No                            | No                            |
+--------------------------------------+-------------------------------+-------------------------------+

> | ``ov::hint::enable_cpu_pinning``     | Not Support                   | Yes                           |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| ``ov::hint::enable_cpu_pinning``     | Not Supported                   | Yes                           |
```

Author: updated

+--------------------------------------+-------------------------------+-------------------------------+

> Throughput Hint on Dual-Sockert XEON platforms

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Throughput Hint on Dual-Socket XEON Platforms
```

Author: updated

##############################################

In this scenario, thread scheduling first evaluates the memory pressure of the model being inferred on the current platform, and determines the number of threads per stream, as shown below.

+-----------------+--------------------+
| Memory Pressure | Threads per stream |
+=================+====================+
| least           | 1                  |
+-----------------+--------------------+
| less            | 2                  |
+-----------------+--------------------+
| normal          | 3 or 4 or 5        |
+-----------------+--------------------+

> Then the value of ``ov::num_streams`` is ``ov::inference_num_threads`` divided by the number of threads per stream. And the default settings of low-level performance properties on Windows and Linux are as follows.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Then the value of ``ov::num_streams`` is ``ov::inference_num_threads`` divided by the number of threads per stream. And the default settings of low-level performance properties on Windows and Linux are as follows:
```

Author: updated

+----------------------------+---------------------+---------------------+

.. note::

    For 14th Gen Intel® Core™ Processor on Windows, use P-cores only for large language models and P_cores+E-cores together for others in this scenario.

Then the default settings of low-level performance properties on Windows and Linux are as follows:

+--------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------+
| Property                             | Windows                                                        | Linux                                                          |
+======================================+================================================================+================================================================+
| ``ov::num_streams``                  | 1                                                              | 1                                                              |
+--------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------+

> | ``ov::inference_num_threads``        | is equal to number of P_cores or P_cores+E_cores on one socket | is equal to number of P_cores or P_cores+E_cores on one socket |

Reviewer 4: `P_cores` -> `P-cores` etc

+--------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``ov::hint::scheduling_core_type``   | `Core Type Table of Latency Hint`_                             | `Core Type Table of Latency Hint`_                             |
+--------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``ov::hint::enable_hyper_threading`` | No                                                             | No                                                             |
+--------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------+

> | ``ov::hint::enable_cpu_pinning``     | No / Not Support                                               | Yes except using P-cores and E-cores together                  |

Reviewer 4: 'No / Not Support' -> 'Not supported'?

+--------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------+

.. note::

    - ``ov::hint::scheduling_core_type`` might be adjusted for particular inferred model on particular platform based on internal heuristics to guarantee best performance.
    - Both P-cores and E-cores are used for the Latency Hint on Intel® Core™ Ultra Processors on Windows, except in the case of large language models.

>     - In hyper threading situation, two logical processors share hardware resource of one CPU core. OpenVINO do not expect to use both logical processors in one stream for one infer request. So ``ov::hint::enable_hyper_threading`` is ``No`` in this scenario.

Reviewer 4: `In hyper threading situation` -> `In case hyper-threading is enabled`

>     - Usually user on Windows will run multiple applications at the same time, so ``ov::hint::enable_cpu_pinning`` for Windows is ``No`` on single socket platform and ``Not Supported`` on dual sockets platform. However user on Linux request the best performance of one application, so ``ov::hint::enable_cpu_pinning`` is ``Yes`` for Linux.

Reviewer 4: Statements like "Usually user on Windows" and "However user on Linux request the best performance of one application" sounds too bold from my pespective. I would rephrase: 
"``ov::hint::enable_cpu_pinning`` is disabled by default on Windows/Mac, and enabled on Linux". Such default settings are aligned with typical workloads running in corresponding environment to guarantee better OOB performance.

+======================================+===============================+===============================+
| ``ov::num_streams``                  | Calculate as above            | Calculate as above            |
+--------------------------------------+-------------------------------+-------------------------------+
| ``ov::inference_num_threads``        | Number of P-cores and E-cores | Number of P-cores and E-cores |
+--------------------------------------+-------------------------------+-------------------------------+
| ``ov::hint::scheduling_core_type``   | P-cores and E-cores           | P-cores and E-cores           |
+--------------------------------------+-------------------------------+-------------------------------+
| ``ov::hint::enable_hyper_threading`` | Yes / No                      | Yes / No                      |
+--------------------------------------+-------------------------------+-------------------------------+
| ``ov::hint::enable_cpu_pinning``     | No                            | Yes                           |
+--------------------------------------+-------------------------------+-------------------------------+

.. note::

>     - By default, each stream is created on P-core only or E-core only on single numa node even all P-cores and E-cores are used in this scenario.

Reviewer 4: By default, different core types are not mixed within single stream?

>     - By default, ``ov::hint::enable_hyper_threading`` is ``Yes`` on single socket platform to run more streams in parallel. And it is ``No`` on dual sockets platform because dual sockets platform has more CPU cores and streams already.

Reviewer 4: To be honest such explanation doesn't make any sense. Maybe better to delete at all.

> Multi-Threading Optimization

Reviewer 4: The section below duplicates description of properies in the very beggining of this file. Can we merge this section with it?

Author: Current flow is:

1. introduce low level properties related on performance hint
2. introduce the value of low level properties in different performance mode
3. introduce how to manually change the value of low level properties

The section is part 3.

@dmitry-gorokhov would you like to move it between Part 1 and Part 2?

Reviewer 4: Ok, lets leave as is.
